



Network Working Group                                 M. Kuehlewind, Ed.
Internet-Draft                                               S. Krishnan
Obsoletes: 4053 (if approved)                                      Q. Wu
Intended status: Informational                                       IAB
Expires: 15 August 2026                                 11 February 2026


    Procedures for Handling Liaison Statements to and from the IETF
                      draft-iab-rfc4053bis-latest

Abstract

   This document describes the procedures for generating and handling
   liaison statements between the IETF and other SDOs, so that the IETF
   can effectively collaborate with other organizations in the
   international standards community.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-iab-rfc4053bis/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Internet Architecture
   Board Internet Engineering Task Force mailing list
   (mailto:iab@iab.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/iab/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/iab/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4053bis.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 15 August 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Changes compared to RFC4053
   2.  Content of Liaison Statements
     2.1.  Contact Information
     2.2.  Purpose
     2.3.  Body, Title, and Attachments
   3.  Recording Liaison Statements
     3.1.  Incoming Liaison Statements from Other SDOs
     3.2.  Outgoing Liaison Statements from the IETF
   4.  Sending Liaison Statements from the IETF
     4.1.  Approval
     4.2.  Level of Consensus
     4.3.  Transmitting (references to) documents
   5.  Receiving and Responding to Incoming Liaison Statements
     5.1.  Level of Consensus When Sending a Response
   6.  Security Considerations
   7.  IANA Considerations
   Acknowledgments
   Informative References
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   This document describes the procedure for generating and handling
   liaison statements between the IETF and other SDOs, so that the IETF
   can effectively collaborate with other organizations in the
   international standards community.

   Most organizations have a process to send liaison statements that
   simply provides a more formal way of communication, beyond just
   sending an informal email.  However, every organization has slightly
   different procedures to handle the sending and receiving of liaison
   statements.  In some cases sending formal liaison statements might be
   the only way of communicating with a certain organization.

   The IETF process, described in this document, is intended to be as
   simple as possible while still accommodating the process or format
   requirements of various other SDOs.  One key property of the IETF
   liaison statement handling process is the requirement to record all
   sent and received liaison statements in a publicly accessible central
   location, which makes it more formal than other direct
   communications.  However, liaison statements do not have any special
   standing within the IETF process otherwise.  This means that any
   input provided through a liaison statement, even if that statement
   reflects consensus in the other organisation, does not have a
   different standing in the IETF process than other (individually-
   provided) inputs.

   Further, liaison statements sent by the IETF usually do not go though
   the normal IETF consensus process (e.g. an IETF-wide last call) and
   therefore do not automatically represent IETF consensus.  Depending
   on the nature of the liaison statement, it might refer to existing
   IETF consensus as documented in IETF-stream RFCs or working group
   chairs might ask for working group consensus on a technical matter
   not (yet) documented in an RFC.  While the existence of a formal
   liaison statement does not automatically imply any form of consensus
   within the IETF process, liaison statements still reflect an official
   position supported by leadership approval and particularly underline
   when the stated position is based on existing community consensus.
   When sending a liaison statement from the IETF, it is highly
   recommended to clearly indicate any level of consensus or non-
   consensus as part of the liaison statement content.  Further
   consideration on consensus in IETF liaison statements are provided in
   Section 4.2.

   The exchange of liaison statements does not require a formal liaison
   relationship (see [I-D.krishnan-iab-rfc4052bis]).  The procedures
   described in this document encompass all liaisons statements received
   from or sent to other SDOs, whether or not a formal liaison
   arrangement is in place between the SDO and the IETF.  The IAB is
   generally responsible for ensuring liaison statements are handled
   appropriately and can assist with any liaison matter.  If a formal
   liaison relationship with an IAB-appointed liaison manager is in
   place, the liaison manager assists the IAB in this responsibility and
   is the first contact point for liaison statements send to or received
   from the respective SDO, as also further explained in
   [I-D.krishnan-iab-rfc4052bis].  Especially, the liaison manager
   should be consulted before sending a liaison statement to ensure
   formal requirements or agreements of the liaison relation are
   followed.

   Receipt of a liaison statement does not automatically impose an
   obligation of sending a response by the other party.  The decision to
   send a response depends on the content and kind of request.  A
   liaison statement, just like any other input into the IETF process,
   is considered for its relevance, importance, and urgency.  However,
   if a formal liaison relationship exists, it is the responsibility of
   the liaison manager to ensure appropriate communication between the
   organisations (see Section 3 of [I-D.krishnan-iab-rfc4052bis]) even
   if no response is sent.

   If no response to an incoming liaison statement is provided, this
   does not indicate agreement or consensus on the topic raised to the
   IETF.  IETF positions require community rough consensus via processes
   managed by the working group chairs and the Internet Engineering
   Steering Group (IESG).

   Sometimes liaison statements sent from other SDOs may cover topics
   that are relevant for research done in the IRTF.  In this case the
   IAB consults with the IRTF chair who might choose to forward them to
   any relevant IRTF research group(s).  The IRTF chair as a member of
   IAB can work with the IAB, as well as specific research group chairs,
   to decide whether a response to the liaison statement is needed.
   Research groups do not initiate sending of liaison statements.

1.1.  Changes compared to RFC4053

   The major change in this revision of the document is that all tooling
   details have been removed.  Particularly, some text in the
   introduction, Section 3.1.1.  (Liaison Statement Submission),
   Section 3.1.2.  (Mechanism for Displaying Liaison Statements),
   Section 3.2.2.4.  (Generating Liaison Statements) and the appendix
   have been removed.

   Further, the following has been updated:

   1.  A shorter abstract and introduction, as well as a clarification
       in the introduction about obligations to send replies.

   2.  Removal of the definition section (2.1) as "assignee" is not used
       anymore, and the "addressee" is now simply called the receiver.

   3.  The section on "Content of a Liaison Statement" has been revised
       to

       *  be less detailed about tooling, e.g. not talking about
          concrete fields anymore,

       *  introduce a new concept to handle contact information,
          replacing "Response Contact" and "Technical Contact" as well
          as additional fields ("CC", "From Contact", "To Contact") that
          exists in the tooling but are actually not specified in
          [RFC4053] and therefore often caused confusion,

       *  add new address information ("Send Reply To"/"Send To") that
          can be used to support processes where one central address is
          used to receive all liaison statements.  This is also the
          process preferred now by the IETF where the central address is
          either the liaison manager or the IAB coordination contact.

   4.  The purpose "For Comment" has been removed as either "For
       Information" or "For Action" can be used instead; depending if a
       deadline is needed or not.  In the current record of statements,
       "For Comment" has been rarely used indicating that this purpose
       is not needed or at least its meaning was not clear.

   5.  New section on "Recording Liaison Statements" that replaces
       Section 2.4. on "Lifetime of a Liaison Statement" to underline
       how important the public record of a liaison statement is and
       clarify the responsibility of the receiver to ensure that all
       incoming statements get appropriately recorded.

   6.  Section 4 from [RFC4052] on "Approval and Transmission of Liaison
       Statements" has been merged to this document

   7.  New text in intro regarding consensus and liaison statements
       having no special standing, as well as the role of the IRTF

   8.  Re-working and shortening of Section on "Sending Liaison
       Statements from the IETF", which includes subsections on Approval
       and consensus now

   9.  Merge and shortening of section 3 (Responsibilities when
       Receiving a Liaison Statement), Section 4 (Recording), and 6
       (Responding) in one new section

2.  Content of Liaison Statements

   A Liaison Statement is a formal letter sent by one standards
   organization to another.  These organizations may be at any level
   (WG, Area, etc.).  Generally, the sender and receiver are peer
   organizations.  A liaison statement may have any purpose, but
   generally the purpose is to solicit information or request an action,
   like share a document, or ask for a review or a technical question.

   Liaison statements may be very formal or informal, depending on the
   rules of the body generating them.  Any liaison statement, however,
   will always contain certain information, much as a business letter
   does.  In order to be able to process and record these statements in
   the IETF, the information should include the following:

2.1.  Contact Information

   The following contact information are expected to be part of a
   liaison statement:

   From:  The statement needs to indicate from what body it originates;
      for example, it may be from an IETF Area or WG, an ITU-T Study
      Group, Working Party, or Question, etc.  A statement may be sent
      from more than one group, e.g. multiple IETF working groups, but
      usually all groups are from the same organization.

   From-Contact:  One or more electronic mail addresses belonging to the
      "From" body.  This includes the addresses associated with the
      "From" group(s), e.g. in the IETF these are the working group
      chairs, working group mailing lists, and Area Director(s), and
      contacts that are required for the management of the liaison, like
      the liaison manager (if one exists) and/or an IAB liaison contact
      in case of statements sent by the IETF or the staff person from
      the external organisation that has sent the incoming liaison by
      mail, as well as any additional technical experts who should be
      informed.

   From-Liaison-Contact ("Send Reply to"):  An explicit "Send Reply To"
      address may be provided that is used for processing the liaison
      statement reply.  This address is usually not a personal address
      but rather a generic address associated with a role or process.
      For liaison statements sent by the IETF, this address should be
      the alias of the liaison manager, if applicable, or an address
      maintained by the IAB for liaison management such as liaison-
      coordination@iab.org.  If a "Send Reply To" address is provided,
      the expectation is that a statement sent in reply will only be
      sent to this address and will then be distributed in the receiving
      organisation, following their internal process.

   To:  The statement needs to indicate to which body it is sent.  A
      statement may be sent to multiple bodies or groups within one
      body.

   To-Contact:  One or more electronic mail addresses from the receiving
      body to which this statement should be sent.  Similar to the
      "From-Contact" this includes all addresses associated with the
      "To" information, additional contacts that are required for
      liaison management, as well as any additional experts.

   To-Liaison-Contact ("Send to"):  If this address is present, the
      liaison statement is only sent to this address and not to the
      addresses in the "To-Contact".  If a liaison statement is a reply,
      this "Send to" address is the "Send Reply To" address provided by
      the other organisation in the original statement.  This supports
      processes where an organisation has a central contact address to
      receive statements and then distributes the statement using their
      own process to the appropriate groups and persons internally.

2.2.  Purpose

   A liaison statement generally has one of three purposes and should
   clearly state its purpose using one of the following labels:

   For Information:  The liaison statement is to inform the receiving
      body of something and expects no response.  This includes calls
      for review comments if the expected response is optional.

   For Action:  The liaison statement requests that the receiving body
      does something on the sender's behalf, usually within a stated
      time frame.  This is also used if a document is sent out for
      comment, and the review feedback is expected in the stated time
      frame.

   In Response:  The liaison statement includes a response to a liaison
      statement from the peer organization on one or more of its
      documents and expects no further response.

   Liaison statements that request action indicate a deadline when the
   action is required.  If the receiving body cannot accomplish the
   request within the stated period, courtesy calls for a response
   offering a more doable deadline or an alternative course of action.

2.3.  Body, Title, and Attachments

   As with any business letter, the liaison statement contains content
   explaining the issues or questions at hand.

   Usually, the statement also contains a short (single line) title
   providing a statement of its context and content.

   Attachments, if enclosed, may be in the form of documents sent with
   the liaison statement, or may be URLs to similar documents, including
   Internet Drafts.

   IETF participants use a wide variety of systems, thus document
   formats that are not universally readable are problematic.  As a
   result, documents enclosed with the body or attachments should be in
   PDF, W3C HTML (without proprietary extensions), or UTF-8 encoded
   plain/text format.  If they were originally in a proprietary format,
   such as Microsoft Word, the file may be sent, but should be
   accompanied by a generally readable file.

   Different organisations have different requirements on the format of
   liaison statements.  There are no requirements from the IETF on the
   format of the actual liaison statement; however, we require the
   metadata (address information and purpose) as indicated in the
   previous section to be recorded explicitly.  As such, when receiving
   statements from other organisations, these metadata should be
   extracted.  Further, the content of the statement must be recorded.
   This content may be recorded by archiving a received document in its
   original format, such as PDF or word, or may be transformed into
   another format, such as plain text or markdown, when it is reasonable
   to do so.

   For statements sent from the IETF, it is recommended to provide the
   content in plain text but also provide an attachment following the
   formatting requirements of the receiving organisation if possible.
   In cases where we have a liaison manager, it is the responsibility of
   the liaison to check or convert the formatting requirements.  It is
   further recommended to convert received documents in proprietary
   formats into PDF and upload both versions as attachments.

   This ensures that our process can comply with all formatting
   requirements from other organisations.

3.  Recording Liaison Statements

   For the IETF, a liaison statement is a message that was sent or
   received (usually an email or some formal letter) that is recorded in
   our liaison management tool, i.e. the value of sending a liaison
   statement for an organization compared to an email, is that it will
   officially be recorded and the public record will attest that certain
   information has been communicated between the organizations.

3.1.  Incoming Liaison Statements from Other SDOs

   The IETF will record any received liaison statement and make it
   publicly available.

   For received liaison statements with a formal liaison relationship,
   it is the responsibility of the liaison manager to create that public
   record.  However, even if a formal liaison relationship exists, it is
   possible that liaison statements arrive without knowledge of the
   liaison manager.  Therefore, it is generally the responsibility of
   the receiver to ensure a public record is created.

   Liaison statements that are sent to the IETF without a liaison
   manager are generally handled by the IAB.  Ideally, statements are
   sent to a contact point appointed by the IAB, who records them and
   further distributes them within the IETF to the right groups and
   experts.  This enables a better control to ensure that liaison
   statements are received by the relevant parties.

   However, it is difficult to ensure that liaison statements will
   always be sent to the right group or person, as statements are
   sometimes sent directly to WG mailing lists or individuals.  E.g an
   SDO might send a liaison statement to a specific IETF Area whose Area
   Director (AD) deems it better handled by one of the WGs, or it might
   be sent to one WG when it should have gone to a different, more
   relevant one.  If a liaison statement arrives that appears
   misdirected, it is recommended to manually forward it to the right
   groups and inform the liaison manager or the IAB so that informal
   feedback can be provided to the sender for the future.

3.2.  Outgoing Liaison Statements from the IETF

   IETF participants (usually WG chairs or ADs), of course adhering to
   the requirements on approval and consensus as outlined in the next
   section, can send liaison statements to other SDOs, and all sent
   liaison statements must be publicly recorded.  Therefore, it is
   recommended to use an IETF-provided tool to send liaison statements,
   rather than send them directly by email and record them after the
   fact.  This approach is possible e.g. if a certain form of submission
   other than email is required by the other organization.

4.  Sending Liaison Statements from the IETF

   There are different reasons for an IETF group to send a liaison
   statement to another organization such as

   *  A working group might request additional information from another
      organization, for example, to resolve an impasse (i.e., don't
      waste time arguing over what the real meaning or intent of another
      SDOs document is, just ask the other SDO and base further work on
      the "official" answer).

   *  A working group might request comments for a document under
      development in the IETF that would benefit from the input of
      experts in another relevant SDO, consortium, or forum.  Generally,
      this is done before the text is "fully cooked" so that input from
      experts in another organization can be included in the final
      result.

   *  In the case of overlapping or related work in another
      organization, a request could be made that the other organization
      change something to align with the IETF work.

   *  A request could be made for another organization to start a new
      work item (on behalf of IETF).

   *  A request could be made for another organization to stop a work
      item (presumably because it overlaps or conflicts with other work
      in the IETF).

   Further, a group might reply to an incoming liaison statement, as
   discussed in more detail in the next section; however, of course, the
   same requirements on consensus and approval as discussed in this
   section are applied.

   Liaison Statements can be generated at a WG, Area, or IETF level to
   another organization.  The respective (co)chair(s) or Area Director
   (AD) are responsible for deciding the content and judging the level
   of consensus that is needed for sending the respective content.  This
   section outlines approval requirements and gives guidance about the
   level of consensus that should be sought before sending a liaison
   statement to another organization.

   Generally, it is recommended to base liaison statements on existing
   consensus (in the form of references to RFCs or other IETF documents)
   or focus on information sharing related to e.g. process like expected
   timelines, rather than aiming to communicate technical matters beyond
   the active work of the respective group.  Further, the level of
   consensus implied or not implied by the liaison statement should be
   spelled out clearly in the liaison statement itself, as this provides
   the most clarity and avoids potential confusion.

4.1.  Approval

   All liaison statements sent by any group in the IETF need AD approval
   to ensure that those writing such statements, who claim to be
   speaking on behalf of a group in the IETF, are truly representing
   IETF views.  This does not include statements sent by the IAB, which
   require IAB approval instead, based on the judgment of the IAB Chair.
   Statements sent from an area, respectively, need approval by at least
   one of the responsible ADs.  Statements sent by the IETF or IESG
   require IETF Chair approval.

   Sometimes it is beneficial or required to send a statement that
   indicates the IETF as the originator rather than a specific working
   group or area.  This might be the case e.g. for questions related to
   the scope of work of the IETF as a whole rather than a specific
   chartered group.  In this case, approval of the IETF Chair is
   required; however, it is usually expected that other matter experts,
   sometimes from the IESG or IAB, are involved in generating the
   content of the statement.

   Statements sent by the IESG do not have different approval
   requirements than statements sent by the IETF: both require IETF
   Chair approval.  This is to avoid heavy processes when sending
   liaison statements.  However, statements from the IESG might imply
   there is consensus among the IESG and, as recommended earlier in this
   document, it is best to clarify in the statement itself if that is
   intended or not.

   In cases where prior approval was not obtained as outlined above, and
   the designated authority (AD, IETF Chair, or IAB Chair) in fact does
   not agree with the message, the designated authority will work with
   the liaison manager or IAB to follow up as appropriate, including
   emitting a revised liaison statement if necessary.  Clearly, this is
   a situation best avoided by assuring appropriate agreement in advance
   of sending the liaison message.

4.2.  Level of Consensus

   A liaison statement does not automatically imply any level of
   consensus and as such it is the responsibility of the chairs or the
   responsible AD to figure out if working groups consensus should be
   strived for before sending a liaison statement.

   The simplest case of sending a liaison statement from IETF is when
   the information being transmitted is based on already existing IETF
   consensus, such as an IETF document that has some level of agreement
   within the IETF or general information about the process or (WG)
   scope.  When sending such statements for pure information sharing
   purposes, the chairs or AD might not reach out for consensus.

   Further, requests for information from the other organization,
   including requests for access to certain documents of other
   organizations that are not publicly available, may be initiated by
   the chair if the additional input is considered helpful for the
   group's progress.

   Other requests, that might often be initiated by a specific group
   discussion, such as soliciting comments for a standards track WG
   Internet Draft, usually benefit from some level of consensus to be
   reached in the WG, or another appropriate, open mailing list.

   Generally, it is recommended to inform the respective group or
   individuals before transmitting a statement to create early awareness
   as the recording and sending of the statement must be announced to
   the originating group.

4.3.  Transmitting (references to) documents

   Any Standards Track RFC (Draft Standard, Proposed Standard, Internet
   Standard, BCP), and any WG document expected to be placed on the
   standards track, may be transmitted without concern.  Informational
   documents may also be exchanged readily when they represent a WG
   position or consensus, such as a requirement or architecture
   document.

   Individually submitted Internet Drafts, Experimental or Historical
   RFCs, and non-WG informational documents should not be transmitted
   without developing further consensus within the relevant group, as
   these documents cannot be truthfully represented as any kind of IETF
   position.

   In all cases, the document status must be appropriately noted.  In
   the case of a WG Internet Draft, it must be clear that the existence
   of the draft only indicates that the WG has accepted the work item
   and, as the standard disclaimer says, the actual content can be
   treated as nothing more than as 'Work in Progress'.

5.  Receiving and Responding to Incoming Liaison Statements

   The responsibilities of the receiver of a liaison statement are the
   same as the responsibilities of any business letter.  A liaison
   statement calls for appropriate consideration of its contents.
   Liaison Statements are always important to the body that sent them.
   Having arrived at the appropriate body, the liaison statement may be
   more or less important to the receiver depending on its contents and
   the expertise of the sender.

   If the liaison statement seeks to influence the direction of a WG's
   development, it should receive the same consideration as any input
   document receives.  This could be the case if a liaison statement
   provides input to a working group document, requests modifications,
   or new work, or comments on the scope of work.  The WG chair may
   request the sender to make their case to the IETF WG in the same
   manner that an author of an Internet-Draft makes their case.

   If a reply is requested (usually marked as "For Action"), the
   originating organziation expects a response by the deadline.  The
   urgency of a liaison statement is usually reflected in its deadline.
   A liaison statement specifying a deadline gives the receiver a finite
   opportunity to influence the activity of another body; if it fails to
   react in a timely fashion, it may miss the opportunity.

   Examples of the kinds of actions that may be requested are:

   *  Access to documents or information about the process and
      timelines.

   *  Comments on a document of another organisation.

   *  Technical questions related to an RFC or working group document.

   *  A request for the IETF to align its work with that of the other
      organization, in the case of overlapping or related work.

   *  A request for the IETF to undertake a new work item.

   *  A request for the IETF to stop a work item (presumably because it
      overlaps or conflicts with other work in the originating
      organization).

   The originating organization should always be informed of what, if
   anything, the IETF has decided to do in response to the request,
   either by sending a formal liaison statement back or utilizing
   information communication, like a simple email reply, if appropriate.
   If a formal liaison relationship with a liaison manager exists, it is
   the responsibility of the liaison manager to ensure appropriate
   communication.  Otherwise, the IAB can be consulted and should be
   integrated into any additional informal communication.

   There is, of course, no requirement that IETF perform the action that
   was requested.  But the request should always be taken seriously, and
   generally, a response is anticipated.  The reply may be that the
   information was useful or not useful, that the requested action has
   been accomplished, it will be accomplished by a specified date, it
   will not be done for a specific reason, an answer to a question
   posed, or any other appropriate reply.  If the IETF decides not to
   honor the request, or to honor it with modifications, ideally, the
   response should include the reasons and, if applicable, an alternate
   course of action.

   It is the responsibility of the (co)chair(s) of the addressed group,
   supported by the liaison manager if one exists, to ensure that a
   response is generated by the deadline if a response is intended.  In
   some cases, a liaison statement may require consideration by multiple
   groups within the IETF; in such cases, potentially multiple chairs
   and area directors have to coordinate, but ideally one of them takes
   the lead and responsibility for developing a response.

5.1.  Level of Consensus When Sending a Response

   As discussed in Section 4.2, it is the chairs' and AD's
   responsibility to decide about the necessary level of consensus
   needed for a certain response.  This section adds additional
   consideration when replying to a request from another organization.

   As also discussed in Section 4.3, if another organization requests
   information that can be found in an IETF document, this can be
   transmitted by the (co)chair(s) of the addressed group, indicating
   the level of agreement for the relevant document.

   If an incoming liaison statement requests information that goes
   beyond what is documented in existing IETF documents, such as asking
   for comments on a document from another organization or a specific
   technical question not addressed in existing RFCs, the chairs should
   seek group input.  Usually, such a request is received on the mailing
   list of a group, and a discussion will occur on the mailing list
   where participants can provide their comments.

   If a clear consensus is evident from the pattern of comments made to
   the mailing list, the (co)chair(s) can summarize the conclusions in a
   reply liaison statement back to the originating organization.

   If no clear consensus is evident from the pattern of comments on the
   mailing list, or if there is no further discussion, a response is
   still anticipated to the originator.  A summary of the email
   comments, or lack of interest in the issue, can be created and sent
   to the originator, and represented as "collected comments" rather
   than a consensus of the IETF group to which the liaison statement was
   addressed.  It is possible to send this kind of reply even if some of
   the comments are contradictory.

   For other requests for actions, for example, if initiating or
   stopping a work item requires a charter change, the consensus of the
   receiving group within IETF or even IETF-wide consensus is clearly
   necessary to fulfill the request.  However, as already indicated, a
   liaison statement has no special standing and should be considered
   equal to all other inputs.  Still, if there is a need for this work
   by the other organization the request should be considered seriously.
   Usually, it is appropriate for the chairs to send a response (by the
   deadline) and explain the process, or invite experts of the other
   organization to participate directly, even if the request itself
   cannot be fulfilled by the deadline.  Potential follow-up liaison
   statements might be sent to provide a status update, e.g. when a
   document gets adopted or is ready for publication.

6.  Security Considerations

   One of the key considerations in developing this process has been the
   possibility of a denial of service attack on the IETF and its
   processes.  Historically, the IETF has not always handled liaison
   statements effectively, resulting in people working in other
   organizations becoming frustrated with it.  Various organizations
   have also used the liaison statement process to impose deadlines on
   IETF activities, which has been frustrating for all concerned - the
   IETF because it does not accept such deadlines, and other
   organizations because they feel ignored.  While the IETF cannot rate-
   limit the submitters, it can manage its internal pipelines.

   This issue is exacerbated by the lack of any authentication on the
   part of the submitter.  However, the IAB considers it important to be
   able to accept liaison statements, whether or not a liaison
   relationship exists, so authentication of submitters is not an
   effective control.

7.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

Acknowledgments

   [RFC4053] was authored by Stephen Trowbridge, Scott Bradner, Fred
   Baker.  The text in RFC4053 further has been prompted by discussions
   with numerous individuals within IETF and other SDOs and fora,
   including Gary Fishman and Bert Wijnen.  It has been developed in
   cooperation with [RFC4052], which is to say with the express
   cooperation of the chair of the IAB at that time, Leslie Daigle.

   This document contain parts of text from [RFC4053], however, all
   tooling details were removed and the remaining text will be reworked
   step by step with the goal to end up with a shorter and clear
   document that outlines requirements and gives high-level guidance to
   people sending and receiving liaison statements.

   Thanks to Eliot Lear, Robert Sparks, Dhruv Dody, and Warren Kumari
   for their review input.

Informative References

   [I-D.krishnan-iab-rfc4052bis]
              Krishnan, S., Kühlewind, M., and Q. Wu, "IAB Processes for
              Management of IETF Liaison Relationships", Work in
              Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-krishnan-iab-rfc4052bis-
              01, 14 June 2025, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
              draft-krishnan-iab-rfc4052bis-01>.

   [RFC4052]  Daigle, L., Ed. and IAB, "IAB Processes for Management of
              IETF Liaison Relationships", BCP 102, RFC 4052,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC4052, April 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4052>.

   [RFC4053]  Trowbridge, S., Bradner, S., and F. Baker, "Procedures for
              Handling Liaison Statements to and from the IETF",
              BCP 103, RFC 4053, DOI 10.17487/RFC4053, April 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4053>.

Authors' Addresses

   Mirja Kuehlewind (editor)
   IAB
   Email: ietf@kuehlewind.net


   Suresh Krishnan
   IAB
   Email: suresh.krishnan@gmail.com


   Qin Wu
   IAB
   Email: bill.wu@huawei.com
