



Network Working Group                                 M. Kuehlewind, Ed.
Internet-Draft                                               S. Krishnan
Obsoletes: 4053 (if approved)                                      Q. Wu
Intended status: Informational                                       IAB
Expires: 13 December 2025                                   11 June 2025


    Procedures for Handling Liaison Statements to and from the IETF
                 draft-kuehlewind-iab-rfc4053bis-latest

Abstract

   This document describes the procedures for generating and handling
   liaison statements between the IETF and other SDOs, so that the IETF
   can effectively collaborate with other organizations in the
   international standards community.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-kuehlewind-iab-rfc4053bis/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Internet Architecture
   Board Internet Engineering Task Force mailing list
   (mailto:iab@iab.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/iab/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/iab/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4053bis.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 13 December 2025.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Changes compared to RFC4053
   2.  Content of Liaison Statements
     2.1.  Contact Information
     2.2.  Purpose
     2.3.  Body, Title, and Attachments
   3.  Responsibilities when Receiving a Liaison Statement
   4.  Recording Liaison Statements
     4.1.  Incoming Liaison Statements from Other SDOs
     4.2.  Outgoing Liaison Statements from the IETF
   5.  Sending Liaison Statements from the IETF
     5.1.  Communicating IETF Information to Other SDOs, Consortia,
           and Fora
     5.2.  Transmitting IETF Documents to Other Organizations
     5.3.  Requests for Information
     5.4.  Requesting Comments on Work in Progress
     5.5.  Requests for Other Actions (Besides Comments on IETF
           Drafts)
   6.  Responding to Incoming Liaison Statements
     6.1.  Responding to Requests for Information
     6.2.  Responding to Requests for Comments
     6.3.  Responding to Request for Action
   7.  Approval and Transmission of Liaison Statements
   8.  Security Considerations
   9.  IANA Considerations
   Acknowledgments
   Informative References
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   This document describes the procedure for generating and handling
   liaison statements between the IETF and other SDOs, so that the IETF
   can effectively collaborate with other organizations in the
   international standards community.

   Most organizations have a process to send liaison statements which
   simply provides a more formal way of communication, beyond e.g. just
   sending an informal email.  However, every organization has its own
   slightly different procedures to handle sending and receiving of
   liaison statements.  The IETF process is intended to be as less
   complex as possible while still accommodating the process or format
   requirements from various other SDOs.  The property of the IETF
   liaison statement handling process is the requirement to record all
   sent and received liaison statements in a publicly accessible central
   location, which makes its more formal than other direct
   communications.  However, liaison statements do not have any special
   standing within the IETF process otherwise.  This means input
   provided through a liaison statement, even if that statement reflects
   consensus in the other organisation, does not have a different
   standing in the process than other (individually-provided) inputs.

   Further, liaison statements that are sent by the IETF do usually not
   pass though the normal IETF consensus process, e.g. in an IETF-wide
   last call, and therefore do generally not represent IETF consensus.
   Depending on the nature of the liaison statement, it might refer to
   existing IETF consensus as documented in IETF-stream RFCs or working
   group chairs might ask for working group consensus on technical
   matter not (yet) documented in an RFC.  However, just the existence
   of a formal liaison statement does not imply any form of consensus
   within the IETF process.  When sending a liaison it is highly
   recommended to clearly indicate any level of consensus or non-
   consensus as part of the liaison statement content.

   The exchange of liaison statements does not require a formal liaison
   relationship (see [RFC4052]).  The procedures described in this
   document encompass all liaisons statements received from SDOs,
   whether or not a formal liaison arrangement is in place between the
   SDO and the IETF.

   Receive of a liaison statement does not automatically impose an
   obligation of sending a response by the other party.  The decision to
   send a response depends on the content and kind of request.  However,
   if a formal liaison relationship exists, it is the responsibility of
   the liaison manager to ensure appropriate communication between the
   organisations (see Section 3 of [RFC4052]) even if no response is
   sent.

1.1.  Changes compared to RFC4053

   The mayor change in this revision of the document is that all tooling
   details have been removed.  Particularly some text in the
   introduction, Section 3.1.1.  (Liaison Statement Submission),
   Section 3.1.2.  (Mechanism for Displaying Liaison Statements),
   Section 3.2.2.4.  (Generating Liaison Statements) and the appendix
   have been removed.

   Further the following guidance has been updated in the -00 version:

   1.  A shorter abstract and introduction as well as a clarification in
       the introduction about obligations to send replies.

   2.  Removal of the definition section (2.1) as "assignee" is not used
       anymore and the "addressee" is now simply called receiver.

   3.  The section on "Content of a Liaison Statement" has been revised
       to

       *  be less detailed about tooling, e.g. not talking about
          concrete fields anymore,

       *  introduce a new concept to handle contact information,
          replacing "Response Contact" and "Technical Contact" as well
          as additional fields ("CC", "From Contact", "To Contact") that
          exists in the tooling but are actually not specificed in
          [RFC4053] and therefore often caused confusion,

       *  add new address information ("Send Reply To"/"Send To") that
          can be used to support processes where one central address is
          used to receive all liaison statements.  This is also the
          process preferred now by the IETF where the central address is
          either the liaison mananager or the IAB coordination contact.

   4.  The purpose "For comment" has been removed as either "For
       information" or "For Action" can be used instead; depending if a
       deadline is needed or not.  In the current record of statements
       "For comment" has been rarely used indicating that this purpose
       is not needed or at least its meaning was not clear.

   5.  New section on "Recording Liaison Statements" that replaces
       Section 2.4. on "Lifetime of a Liaison Statement" to underline
       how important the public record of a liaison statement is and
       clarify the responsibility of the receiver to ensure that all
       incoming statements get appropriately recorded.

   6.  Section 4 from [RFC4052] on "Approval and Transmission of Liaison
       Statements" has been moved to this document, without modification
       so far.

   Changes in the -01 version: 1.  Minor wording adjustments to avoid
   tooling implications 2.  New text in intro on "no special standing"
   and consensus

2.  Content of Liaison Statements

   A Liaison Statement is a business letter sent by one standards
   organization to another.  These organizations may be at any level
   (WG, Area, etc.).  Generally, the sender and receiver are peer
   organizations.  A liaison statement may have any purpose, but
   generally the purpose is to solicit information or request an action,
   like share a document, or ask for a review or a technical question.

   Liaison statements may be very formal or informal, depending on the
   rules of the body generating them.  Any liaison statement, however,
   will always contain certain information, much as an business letter
   does.  In order to be able to process and record these statements in
   the IETF, the information should include the following:

2.1.  Contact Information

   The following contact information are expected to be part of a
   liaison statement:

   From:  The statement needs to indicate from what body it originates;
      for example, it may be from, an IETF Area or WG, an ITU-T Study
      Group, Working Party, or Question, etc.  A statement may be sent
      from more than one group, e.g. multiple IETF working groups, but
      usually all groups are from the same organization.

   From-Contact:  One or more electronic mail addresses belonging to the
      "From" body.  This includes the addresses associated with the
      "From" group(s), e.g. in the IETF these are the working group
      chairs, working group mailing lists, and Area Director(s), and
      contacts that are required for the management of the liaison, like
      the liaison manager (if one exists) and/or an IAB liaison contact
      in case of statements sent by the IETF or the staff person from
      the external organisation that has sent the incoming liaison by
      mail, as well as any additional technical experts that should be
      informed.

   From-Liaison-Contact ("Send Reply to"):  An explicit "Send Reply To"
      address may be provided that is used for processing the liaison
      statement reply.  This address is usually not a personal address
      but rather a generic address associated to a role or process.  For
      liaison statements sent by the IETF, this address should be the
      alias of the liaison manager, if applicable, or an address
      maintained by the IAB for liaison management such as liaison-
      coordination@iab.org.  If a "Send Reply To" address is provided
      the expectation is that a statement sent in reply will only be
      sent to this address and will then be distributed accordingly
      internally in the receiving organisation follow their internal
      process.

   To:  The statement needs to indicate to which body it is sent.  A
      statement may be sent to multiple bodies or groups within one
      body.

   To-Contact:  One or more electronic mail addresses from the receiving
      body to which this statement should be sent.  Similar as the
      "From-Contact" this includes all addresses associated with the
      "To" information, addional contacts that are required for liaison
      management, as well as any additional experts.

   To-Liaison-Contact ("Send to"):  If this address is present, the
      liaison statement is only sent to this address and not to the
      addresses in the "To-Contact".  If a liaison statement is a reply,
      this "Send to" address is the "Send Reply To" address provided by
      the other organisation in the original statement.  This supports
      processes where an organisation has a central contact address to
      receive statements and then distributes the statement using their
      own process to the approrpiate groups and persons internally.

2.2.  Purpose

   A liaison statement generally has one of three purposes and should
   clearly state its purpose using one of the following labels:

   For Information:  The liaison statement is to inform the receiving
      body of something and expects no response.  This includes calls
      for review comments if the expected response is optional.

   For Action:  The liaison statement requests that the receiving body
      does something on the sender's behalf, usually within a stated
      time frame.  This is also used if a document is sent out for
      comment and the review feedback is expected in the stated time
      frame.

   In Response:  The liaison statement includes a response to a liaison
      statement from the peer organization on one or more of its
      documents and expects no further response.

   Liaison statements that request action indicate a deadline when the
   action is required.  If the receiving body cannot accomplish the
   request within the stated period, courtesy calls for a response
   offering a more doable deadline or an alternative course of action.

2.3.  Body, Title, and Attachments

   As with any business letter, the liaison statement contains
   appropriate content explaining the issues or questions at hand.

   Usually the statement also contains a short (usually single line)
   title providing a statement of its context and content.

   Attachments, if enclosed, may be in the form of documents sent with
   the liaison statement or may be URLs to similar documents including
   Internet Drafts.

   IETF participants use a wide variety of systems, thus document
   formats that are not universally readable are problematic.  As a
   result, documents enclosed with the body or attachments should be in
   PDF, W3C HTML (without proprietary extensions), or UTF-8 encoded
   plain/text format.  If they were originally in a proprietary format
   such as Microsoft Word, the file may be sent, but should be
   accompanied by a generally readable file.

   Different organisation have different requirements on the format of
   liaison statements.  There are no requirements from the IETF on the
   format of the actual liaison statement, however, we require the
   metadata (address information and purpose) as indicated in the
   previous section to be recorded explicitly.  As such when receiving
   statement from other organisation these metadata should be extracted.
   Further, the content of the statement must be recorded.  This content
   may be recorded by archiving a received document in its original
   format, such as PDF or word, or may be transformed into an another
   format, such as plain text or markdown, when it is reasonable to do
   so.

   For statements sent from the IETF, it is recommended to provide the
   content in plain text but also provide an attachment following the
   formatting requirements of the receiving organisation if possible.
   If cases where we have a liaison manager, it is the responsiblity of
   the liaison to check or convert the formatting requirements.  It is
   further recommended to convert received documents in proprietary
   formats into PDF and upload both version as attachments.

   This ensures that our process can comply with all formatting
   requirements from other organisations.

3.  Responsibilities when Receiving a Liaison Statement

   The responsibilities of the receiver of a liaison statement are the
   same as the responsibilities of any business letter.  A liaison
   statement calls for appropriate consideration of its contents, and if
   a reply is requested and an appropriate relationship exists, a
   courteous authoritative reply within the expected time frame.  The
   reply may be that the information was useful or not useful, that the
   requested action has been accomplished, it will be accomplished by a
   specified date, it will not be done for a specific reason, an answer
   to a question posed, or any other appropriate reply.

   A liaison statement, just like any other input into the IETF process,
   must be considered for its relevance, importance, and urgency.

   One hopes that a liaison statement will be sent to the right
   organization, but this cannot be assured.  An SDO might send a
   liaison statement to a specific IETF Area whose Area Director (AD)
   deems it better handled by one of the WGs, or it might be sent to one
   WG when it should have gone to another.  If a liaison statement
   arrives that appears misdirected, the receiver should promptly ask
   the liaison manager to redirect it appropriately.  In some cases, a
   liaison statement may require consideration by multiple groups within
   the IETF; in such cases, potentially multiple chair and area
   directors have to coordinate but ideally one of them takes the lead
   and responsibility for developing a response.

   Liaison Statements are always important to the body that sent them.
   Having arrived at the appropriate body, the liaison statement may be
   more or less important to the receiver depending on its contents and
   the expertise of the sender.  If the liaison statement seeks to
   influence the direction of a WG's development, it should receive the
   same consideration that any input document receives.  The WG chair
   may request the sender to make their case to the IETF WG in the same
   manner that an author of an internet draft makes his or her case.

   The urgency of a liaison statement is usually reflected in its
   deadline.  A liaison statement for informational purposes has no
   deadline; in such a case, a courteous "thank you" liaison statement
   may be sent to inform the sender that the liaison statement was
   received.  A liaison statement specifying a deadline, however, gives
   the receiver a finite opportunity to influence the activity of
   another body; if it fails to react in a timely fashion, it may miss
   the opportunity.

4.  Recording Liaison Statements

   For the IETF, a liaison statement is a message that was sent or
   received (usually an email or some kind of formal letter) that is
   recorded in our liaison management tool, i.e. the value of sending a
   liaison statement for an organization compared to a mail, is that it
   will officially be recorded and the public record will attest that
   certain information has been communicated between the organizations.

4.1.  Incoming Liaison Statements from Other SDOs

   The IETF will record any received liaison statement and make it
   publicly available.  For received liaison statement with a formal
   liaison relationship, it is the responsibility of the liaison manager
   to create that public record.  However, even if a formal liaison
   relationship exists, it is possible that liaison statements arrive
   without knowledge of the liaison manager, therefore it is generally
   the responsibility of the receiver to ensure a public record is
   created.

4.2.  Outgoing Liaison Statements from the IETF

   IETF participants (usually WG chairs or ADs) can send liaison
   statements to other SDOs, and all sent liaison statements must be
   publicly recorded.  Therefore, it is recommended to use a IETF
   provided tool to send liaison statements, rather then send them
   directly by email and record them after the fact.  This approach is
   possible e.g. if a certain form of submission other than email is
   required by the other organization.

5.  Sending Liaison Statements from the IETF

5.1.  Communicating IETF Information to Other SDOs, Consortia, and Fora

   Liaison Statements can be generated at a WG, Area, or IETF level to
   another organization.  The respective (co)chair(s) are responsible
   for judging the degree of consensus for sending the particular
   liaison statement and deciding the content.  The amount of consensus
   required to send a liaison statement varies greatly depending on its
   content.  This section gives some rough guidance about how much
   consensus should be sought before sending a liaison statement to
   another organization.

5.2.  Transmitting IETF Documents to Other Organizations

   The simplest case of approving sending of a liaison statement from
   IETF is when the information being transmitted consists of an IETF
   document that has some level of agreement within the IETF.  The
   process that the document has already gone through to achieve its
   current status assures the necessary level of consensus.  Any
   Standards Track RFC (Draft Standard, Proposed Standard, Internet
   Standard, BCP), and any WG document expected to be placed on the
   standards track, may be transmitted without concern.

   Informational documents may also be exchanged readily when they
   represent a WG position or consensus, such as a requirements or
   architecture document.

   In all cases, the document status must be appropriately noted.  In
   the case of a WG Internet Draft, it must be clear that the existence
   of the draft only indicates that the WG has accepted the work item
   and, as the standard disclaimer says, the actual content can be
   treated as nothing more than Work in Progress.

   Individually submitted Internet Drafts, Experimental or Historical
   RFCs, and non-WG informational documents should not be transmitted
   without developing further consensus within the relevant group, as
   these documents cannot be truthfully represented as any kind of IETF
   position.

5.3.  Requests for Information

   Another type of liaison statement that can be generated without the
   need for extensive consensus building on the email list is a request
   for information.  The (co)chairs(s) can generate such a liaison
   statement when they recognize, from the activities of the group, that
   some additional information is helpful, for example, to resolve an
   impasse (i.e., don't waste time arguing over what the real meaning or
   intent of another SDOs document is, just ask the other SDO and base
   further work on the "official" answer).

   Other requests for information may request access to certain
   documents of other organizations that are not publicly available.

5.4.  Requesting Comments on Work in Progress

   There may be cases when one feels that a document under development
   in the IETF may benefit from the input of experts in another relevant
   SDO, consortium, or forum.  Generally, this is done before the text
   is "fully cooked" so that input from experts in another organization
   can be included in the final result.  Comments would generally be
   solicited for a standards track WG Internet Draft and some level of
   consensus should be reached on the WG or other open mailing list that
   it is appropriate to ask another organization for comments on an IETF
   draft.

5.5.  Requests for Other Actions (Besides Comments on IETF Drafts)

   There are many other kinds of actions that might reasonably be
   requested of another organization:

   o In the case of overlapping or related work in another organization,
   a request could be made that the other organization change something
   to align with the IETF work.

   o A request could be made for another organization to start a new
   work item (on behalf of IETF).

   o A request could be made for another organization to stop a work
   item (presumably because it overlaps or conflicts with other work in
   the IETF).

   These kinds of requests are quite serious.  They can certainly be
   made when appropriate, but should only be made when there is the
   clearest possible consensus within the particular WG, Area, or within
   the IETF at large.

6.  Responding to Incoming Liaison Statements

   Any incoming liaison statement that indicates that it is for "Action"
   expects a response by the deadline.  It is the responsibility of the
   (co)chair(s) of the addressed group to ensure that a response is
   generated by the deadline if a respone is intended.

   If no response to an incoming liaison statement is provided, this
   does not imply agreement or consensus on the topic raised to the
   IETF.  IETF positions require community rough consensus via processes
   managed by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).

6.1.  Responding to Requests for Information

   If another organization requests information that can be found in an
   IETF document, this can be transmitted by the (co)chair(s) of the
   addressed group, indicating the level of agreement for the relevant
   document, as also discussed in Section 5.2.

6.2.  Responding to Requests for Comments

   If an incoming liaison statement requests comments on a document from
   another organization, a discussion will occur on the mailing list
   where participants can provide their comments.

   If a clear consensus is evident from the pattern of comments made to
   the mailing list, the (co)chair(s) can summarize the conclusions in a
   reply liaison statement back to the originating organization.

   If no clear consensus is evident from the pattern of comments on the
   mailing list, or if there is no further discussion, a response is
   still anticipated to the originator.  A summary of the email
   comments, or lack of interest in the issue, can be created and sent
   to the originator, and represented as "collected comments" rather
   than a consensus of the IETF group to which the liaison statement was
   addressed.  It is possible to send this kind of a reply even if some
   of the comments are contradictory.

6.3.  Responding to Request for Action

   A request for Action is a fairly serious thing.  Examples of the
   kinds of actions that may be expected are:

   *  In the case of overlapping or related work in another
      organization, another organization may request that the IETF align
      its work with that of the other organization.

   *  A request could be made for IETF to undertake a new work item.

   *  A request could be made for IETF to stop a work item (presumably
      because it overlaps or conflicts with other work in the
      originating organization).

   Consensus of the receiving group within IETF is clearly necessary to
   fulfill the request.  Fulfilling the request may require a great deal
   of time and multiple steps, for example, if initiating or stopping a
   work item requires a charter change.

   There is, of course, no requirement that IETF perform the action that
   was requested.  But the request should always be taken seriously, and
   generally a response is anticipated.  The originating organization
   should always be informed of what, if anything, the IETF has decided
   to do in response to the request.  If the IETF decides not to honor
   the request, or to honor it with modifications, the response should
   include the reasons and, if applicable, the alternate course of
   action.

   For tasks that require a great deal of time, it may be necessary that
   several liaison statements be sent back to the originating
   organization to report the status of the work and the anticipated
   completion time.  The first of these liaison statements should be
   generated by the deadline indicated in the incoming liaison
   statement.

7.  Approval and Transmission of Liaison Statements

   It is important that appropriate leadership review be made of
   proposed IETF liaison statements and that those writing such
   statements, who claim to be speaking on behalf of a group in the
   IETF, are truly representing IETF views.

   For a liaison statement generated on behalf of an IETF WG, the WG
   chair(s) must create a statement based on appropriate discussions
   within the WG to ensure working group consensus for the position(s)
   presented.  The chair(s) must have generated or must agree with the
   sending of the liaison statement, and must advise the AD(s) that the
   liaison statement has been sent by copying the appropriate ADs on the
   message.

   For a liaison statement generated on behalf of an IETF Area, the
   AD(s) must have generated or must agree with the sending of the
   liaison statement.  If the liaison statement is not sent by the ADs,
   then their agreement must be obtained in advance and confirmed by
   copying the ADs on the message.

   For a liaison statement generated on behalf of the IETF as a whole,
   the IETF Chair must have generated or must agree with the sending of
   the liaison statement.  If the liaison statement is not sent by the
   IETF Chair, then his or her agreement must be obtained in advance and
   confirmed by copying the IETF Chair on the message.

   For a liaison statement generated by the IAB, the IAB Chair must have
   generated or must agree with the sending of the liaison statement.
   If the liaison statement is not sent by the IAB Chair, then his or
   her agreement must be obtained in advance and confirmed by copying
   the IAB Chair on the message.

   In cases where prior agreement was not obtained as outlined above,
   and the designated authority (AD, IETF Chair, or IAB Chair) in fact
   does not agree with the message, the designated authority will work
   with the liaison manager or IAB to follow up as appropriate,
   including emitting a revised liaison statement if necessary.
   Clearly, this is a situation best avoided by assuring appropriate
   agreement in advance of sending the liaison message.

8.  Security Considerations

   One of the key considerations in developing this process has been the
   possibility of a denial of service attack on the IETF and its
   processes.  Historically, the IETF has not always handled liaison
   statements effectively, resulting in people working in other
   organizations becoming frustrated with it.  Various organizations
   have also used the liaison statement process to impose deadlines on
   IETF activities, which has been frustrating for all concerned - the
   IETF because it does not accept such deadlines, and other
   organizations because they feel ignored.  While the IETF cannot rate-
   limit the submitters, it can manage its internal pipelines.

   This issue is exacerbated by the lack of any authentication on the
   part of the submitter.  However, the IAB considers it important to be
   able to accept liaison statements whether or not a liaison
   relationship exists, so authentication of submitters is not an
   effective control.

9.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

Acknowledgments

   [RFC4053] was authored by Stephen Trowbridge, Scott Bradner, Fred
   Baker.  The text in RFC4053 further has been prompted by discussions
   with numerous individuals within IETF and other SDOs and fora,
   including Gary Fishman and Bert Wijnen.  It has been developed in
   cooperation with [RFC4052], which is to say with the express
   cooperation of the chair of the IAB at that time, Leslie Daigle.

   This document contain parts of text from [RFC4053], however, all
   tooling details were removed and the remaining text will be reworked
   step by step with the goal to end up with a shorter and clear
   document that outlines requirements and gives high-level guidance to
   people sending and receiving liaison statements.

Informative References

   [RFC4052]  Daigle, L., Ed. and IAB, "IAB Processes for Management of
              IETF Liaison Relationships", BCP 102, RFC 4052,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC4052, April 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4052>.

   [RFC4053]  Trowbridge, S., Bradner, S., and F. Baker, "Procedures for
              Handling Liaison Statements to and from the IETF",
              BCP 103, RFC 4053, DOI 10.17487/RFC4053, April 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4053>.

Authors' Addresses

   Mirja Kuehlewind (editor)
   IAB
   Email: ietf@kuehlewind.net


   Suresh Krishnan
   IAB
   Email: suresh.krishnan@gmail.com


   Qin Wu
   IAB
   Email: bill.wu@huawei.com
